In another universe, sunlight drips through an open window. I am lying on the floor in a small apartment. I am five years old. Nothing bad has happened to me.
 
In this version of the story, my life is still a blank slate, and I can control what happens like one of those Choose-Your-Own-Adventure video games. The critical events that will go on to change my life—the move to America, the class switch in high school, the fateful LinkedIn DM—have yet to take place. Nothing bad has happened, nothing good has happened, and I was still naïve enough to believe I could shape the future to my will.
 
There’s something exciting and simultaneously terrifying about this echo of myself twelve years ago. Everyone has a version of this: What if X never happened? What if I never met Y? What if I wasn’t at Z (an oddly specific locale that you never could’ve predicted) at this particular point in time? We look back on our lives and consider all the possibilities of what could have been: all the alternate universes in which we were still a kid, and things happened to work out a little differently, and our new lives turned out to be nothing like the one we’re currently living. Whether it’s with longing (things didn’t work out the way you wanted them to) or gratitude (things worked out—good for you!), it’s human nature to marvel at things beyond our control.
 
In my alternate universe, I am still five years old in my grandmother’s seventeenth-floor apartment in Guangzhou. I would have no idea that one year later, I would be on a one-way flight to the United States. Eight years later, I would learn what startups are for the first time. And twelve years later, I would leave Stanford to build one.
 
* * *

In 1955, a boy was born in the suburbs of Seattle. His parents placed him into an elite private school, where the mothers piled together enough money to fund the school’s computer club. When that money ran out, one of the parents happened to work at a local computer company, which happened to invite the boy and his friends to test the company’s software, which happened to give them free programming time in exchange. When a technology company then needed specialized programmers, they happened to know about this boy, who happened to be invited to spend his senior year writing code for them. A few years later, once he happened to have gotten all these extraordinary opportunities to practice coding, this boy dropped out of Harvard and build the world’s largest personal computer software company.
 
If you've read Malcolm Gladwell's Outliers, you'll know this boy is Bill Gates. It sounds almost mythological, the way the pieces of his story falls into place, like fate was following an IKEA assembly manual for the modern-day technical founder. “Lucky breaks don’t seem like the exception with software billionaires and rock bands and star athletes,” Gladwell wrote. “They seem like the rule.”
 
In 1960, a boy was born in the suburbs of New York. If you had a chance to meet him, you’d know his talent in playwriting and composing was beyond compare. As an ambitious writer fresh out of college, he decided to make the fabled move to New York City, into a lower-Manhattan apartment where the shower was in the kitchen and the central heating was nonexistent. But one year happened to turn into two years which happened to turn into nearly a decade, and all he had to show for it was a minimum-wage diner job and a rejected manuscript. It would not be until eight years later when a show he wrote happened to take off that his career finally began. Soon after that, he wrote his breakout musical, which happened to go on to win the Tony Award and Pulitzer Prize.
 
If you know the writer behind the musical Rent, you’ll know this boy is Jonathan Larson. You’ll know that Rent remains, to this day, one of the longest-running shows on Broadway. But you’ll also know that on January 25, 1996, Jonathan Larson would die from a fatal aortic aneurism one day before Rent would make its first performance. He was 35 years old. Later, a lawsuit determined that if doctors had properly diagnosed him when he went to the hospital with chest pains, his life would have been saved. But he was unlucky, and reality didn’t happen to play out that way.

For years, the determinism behind luck haunted me. I could build a successful career, I would think. I could achieve the Gatsbyesque American dream. I could buy that house next to the beach. I could meet “the one.” I could write my magnum opus. I could satisfy all the investors. I could find a fabulous work-life balance. I could become a good mother. I could earn enough to retire my dad. I could get my big break. 
 
And still, the next day, I could die in a car crash.
 
Call me fatalistic, but that doesn’t erase the harsh reality that life can be utterly, entirely, frighteningly beyond our control. The good luck that brought Bill Gates to the computer club is just as enigmatic as the bad luck that brought Jonathan Larson to inattentive doctors. If there is some deep dichotomous logic that separates the two, we don’t know it. For centuries, philosophers have debated the subject of free will. Immanuel Kant, one of the central Enlightenment thinkers, asserted that our understanding of goodness and morality depends on our freedom to choose between right and wrong. Yet by the 1980s, Benjamin Libet seemed to have scientifically demonstrated that we cannot have free will, showing how electrical signals for an action build up in our brains before we ever make a conscious decision to take that action. If luck is so prominent, do we really have any control over our lives?

* * *
 
Chaos theory is a branch of mathematics and physics that studies the unpredictable. It looks at systems that are non-linear and highly sensitive to initial conditions, where one small change to an input leads to unimaginable changes in result. While most of science studies conventionally predictable concepts like gravity, geometry, or genetics, chaos is the science of surprises. There are phenomena in our existence—the weather, the stock market, the story of our lives—that can never be predicted, because one tiny change makes all the difference.
 
In another universe, I am lying on the floor in a small apartment, I am five years old, and nothing has happened to me. I am a blank slate of initial conditions on which the rest of my life will be built. How many branches, how many alternate universes, will spawn if one thing happened differently? How many things can go wrong? We can try to guess, or we can embrace the chaos. In The Art of Happiness, the Greek philosopher Epicurus writes in a doctrine: “Bad luck strikes the sophisticated man in a few cases, but reason has directed the big, essential things, and for the duration of life it is and will be the guide.”

In the aftermath of luck, we have agency. Chaos teaches us to expect the unexpected, but what happens after that is up to us. Proactive people don’t wait for life to happen to them; they make their own luck. Serendipity finds its way into your life when you are always learning, always building, always sharing your work. On my deathbed, I will spend time connecting all the dots in my life, but they will be dots I never could have predicted. The beauty of luck is its lawlessness; we can live in fear of this lawlessness, or we can minimize the impact of its external, uncontrollable factors and maximize how well we respond to them.
 
In this current universe, I am eighteen years old, standing on the rooftop of Stanford’s Aeronautics and Astronautics building on one of my last nights of being a student there. It’s late enough that the remaining restless students have either retreated to their dorms or committed to their all-nighters in Huang basement. I’m about to leave and move across the country. Like Jonathan Larson, this is my fabled move to New York City, where our one-bedroom apartment in the West Village has a kitchen which is ten feet from the bed which is two feet from the desk. I have feared luck my whole life—now, I don’t see it as a threat, but more so the gentle machinery of life. Chaos theory teaches me that life is nonlinear and unpredictable. There is no point in trying to guess different endings. 

So here’s to this one.