My mom first shared this album with me when I was young. She said it made her feel “seen.” We would sit in transformative silence as the music played. She spoke to me through lyrics she did not write. As I held her CD in my hand all those years ago, I realized that she and I were the same. We listened to those songs while flipping Sunday morning pancakes, driving to our favorite movies, and sitting on the beach on a Friday afternoon. Through lyrics like "the smell of the warm summer air," I’d feel my mom’s love wash over me like sun rays cover late August.

Those summers were a childhood of old music and hopeful ideas. "One day I’m gonna grow wings," I remember hearing. I never asked for the impending wings of adulthood. Sad guitar made me fearful of the future, fearful of growing up. As years passed and school went on, I found solace in gentle tunes. "Slow down," the band urged, "slow down." I fall back into memories with my best friend. Popcorn in a bowl and old movies bright on the TV. We laughed together my freshman year. She asked me if I could believe that high school was already here. I told her we had time. Time moves faster than I realized then. "They ask me where I’m going at a thousand feet per second." These songs stayed with me as I hurdle towards my future faster than I can fathom. The cusp of adulthood is an unexpected surprise. 

This album is the human experience. It's the anxious, unpromised, and complicated nature of being alive. It shows you both the pain and joy of discovering who you are. It exists in the space between vibrant weekends and gray work days. It’s the joy of birthdays and the loneliness of growing up. It's the beauty of uncontrollable laughs and the catharsis of a good cry—sometimes it's the privilege of doing both at the same time. In the most misunderstood, liminal parts of life, we find our humanity. Our lives are filled with memories of pain and hope for the future. One can not exist without the other because they are meaningless alone. "It’s gonna be a glorious day." We strive to be something better than perfect. We strive to be gloriously imperfect. A perfect life robs us of the experiences that come to define us. Humanity is worth our time because its imperfection is what makes us feel alive. 