I am in love with a word.

“Sinofuturism”: the intersection between Chinese culture and futuristic technology. I first discovered the word in a little book about blockchain chicken farms in China’s countryside, a book that still sits on my nightstand. And while the word doesn’t officially exist on Dictionary.com, it exists in my mind as a love letter to dichotomy: a representation of how two contrasting subjects can converge into an intricate fusion. Sinofuturism shows the beauty in dichotomy—more than that, it makes me realize I am a product of it. 

I am Chinese and American.

In Guangzhou, I find nostalgia thick as honey dripping down the skyscrapers: the fish market where my grandmother bargains prices, the aunties exchanging Sunday gossip in Cantonese, the family reunions over hot pot. Guangzhou is my first home, my birth country. Being in its streets is like reconnecting with an old friend. But in America, I have also spent Friday nights at football games and Thanksgivings overcooking turkey. I have voiced my beliefs at protests and pre-registered to vote. When you enter my home, you’ll hear English woven between Mandarin and Cantonese. When you peek inside the fridge, you’ll find pizza dough next to cong you bing, microwavable chicken nuggets next to homemade jiao zi. And when you unravel this story, you’ll find a girl lodged between two cultures, trying to create her own.

I am a writer and computer programmer.

My childhood bedroom overflowed with manuscripts about talking dogs and flying cars, swimming across the floor like a tornado-swept bookstore. Even when I wasn’t fluent in English, I tried to sew together stories from daydreams and Chinese folktales, novels and my grandmother’s fables. Out of my insecurity for speaking English came the stories that changed me—stories with invincible words that helped me understand the world. Yet in my sophomore year, I stumbled across a different discipline: computer science. From then on, I have attempted to fuse computer science and writing in new ways, from creating software that makes writing more accessible to training an AI that can write its own poems. Inspired by the way a few lines of code can transcend human capabilities, I spent nights working until “Eureka!”, the way an action sequence crescendos to its climax. Through it all, I have learned that writing and computer science are not so different—they simply bring imagination to life in different ways. 

I am an entrepreneur and designer.

4 AM on a Friday night—my friends and I hunch over a shared Figma file as we put the finishing touches on our business slide deck, the same one we’ll be pitching to the CEO of an Israeli startup in less than 24 hours. One minute I’m pouring over revenue synergies, the next I’m polishing every design detail. Just as how a single digit can change an entire calculation, I’ve learned that a single color shift can change the entire story behind a product. I am excited by statistics just as much as design: the data points behind products, the aesthetics behind app screens, the thrill of creating something out of nothing. 

I am Tina Mai, and this is my love story with sinofuturism. 

Sinofuturism means that I can feel at home both in Chinese teahouses and the aisles of Costco; that the same hands that write poems can also program AI robots; that the best products are invented from a happy medium of business and design. And while contradiction can be scary—my relatives an ocean away, my parents fighting, my world split by xenophobia—it can also lead to creation. That book on my nightstand reminds me that sinofuturism is a mindset: to tell stories, to dream bigger, to remember my heritage but embrace futuristic innovation at the same time. 

Someday I hope to invent the future. But for now, I have more words to fall in love with. 