I like watching game shows because I like watching people try. Deep in the Top Chef archives, a New York Italian who has spent six episodes inflating his abilities finally loses, turns lobster-red, and wells up with gasping, blubbering tears. A fellow competitor—a Vietnamese woman half his size—kisses him gently on the forehead as he departs. I know reality TV is trashy, but I can’t help but stare. I like watching people act like assholes to fight for a title only one can end up with. I like watching chefs’ gruff exteriors fade into glee and camaraderie and pleading eyes at Judges’ Table when you know they really, really fucking want it. The token villain line on Top Chef is I’m not here to make friends—for the veteran viewer, herein lies the dramatic irony of knowing the contestant is wrong—that he will make friends, whether he wants to or not.

In high school, Jessica and I did debate because we so often lost. We attended a school full of smart kids who were used to winning. In other clubs like DECA (the business club) and FPS (a strange futurism exercise), our classmates racked up trophies effortlessly. We were all already academic superstars, trained 14-year-old bullshitters. Debate, meanwhile, was full of nerds like us—who would read academic journals and write research papers for fun on the weekends—and were therefore immune to rhetorical tricks. It was a meticulous activity by design; it rewarded preparation rather than posture. If you didn’t care for the work, there were far easier ways to polish a college application.

I started running this year because I wanted to become more resilient to pain. I kept at it because the views were good (I live near the park) and I liked seeing the numbers on Strava go up (or down, appropriately). I read the requisite Haruki Murakami: “Most of what I know about writing I’ve learned through running every day. These are practical, physical lessons. How much can I push myself? How much rest is appropriate—and how much is too much?… To what extent should I be confident in my abilities, and when should I start doubting myself?” Since running is so solitary, it’s easy to get in your own head. I’m still slow, and probably will be forever. Maybe it’s the first thing I’ve tried at without hoping to beat someone else.

There are so many activities in life that are both hard and fundamentally pointless: game shows, marathon running, climbing the ladder at work, getting good at Go, designing typefaces, making puff pastry from scratch. C. Thi Nguyen puts it best in Games: Agency as Art. Play—irrational striving, disposable ends, false obstacles constructed for the sake of the struggle—this is what makes us human after all.