I thought a lot about the writing process this year. Craft talk, as they say. I read Working by Robert Caro, In the Margins by Elena Ferrante, The Writing Life by Annie Dillard, and listened to countless episodes of the Longform podcast (highly recommend). I talked to my most productive creative friends about balancing freelancing with full-time jobs. I attended live talks by Brandon Taylor and R.F. Kuang and Jenny Odell (twice); I subscribed to Garth Greenwell and Junot Díaz and Carmen Maria Machado on Substack so I could marinate in their literary minds.

And here’s what I learned from all that: The ones who succeed are often simply the ones who try harder than everybody else. They wake up in the wee hours to write before their first meeting of the day; they turn down social invitations to practice their craft. They kill their darlings; they do the reading; none of this sounds easy because it’s not. In Monsters, a great essay collection about bad people, Claire Dederer writes that “Finishers are always monsters”—that is, behind every completed oeuvre is a trail of broken promises to people you love. The dirty secret of the creator economy is that there’s no such thing as overnight success, and when there is, it often goes away just as fast. I notice a direct correlation between the success of a piece and how long it took to write; it’s funny when people ask how I balance Reboot with my job because it’s less an active prioritization decision and more a fixed cost like sleep and showers and brushing my teeth. My therapist likes to remind me that I’ll never build a habit that I only squeeze into my “leftover time.” I hate to sound like a self-help book, but it turns out that trying works.

Not everyone’s an artist, unlike they say in second grade. It’s so pejorative—we wouldn’t talk this way about lawyers and pilots and software engineers. Are you a real physician if you never see a patient? Can you call yourself a plumber if you use a plunger once a month? Blowing the gates of inclusion open seems like another way of taking the arts less seriously than other disciplines—like, you have to try to get a C in a Stanford humanities class—which obviously becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy in the end, because nobody respects skills where awards come too easy.

(This whole take is a big self-own. I talk far too much about writing for the scraps that I put into the world, and maybe I’m only saying this to gift myself the courage—or the shame—to live up to the things I profess to love.)