My greatest fear is producing work that sounds like ChatGPT. I assume most creatives feel this way about generative AI; it’s the classic sneer of this work is derivative taken to its dystopian modern end. This reaction makes sense, but misses the big picture. In his piece on ChatGPT, Ted Chiang writes:

"Some might say that the output of large language models doesn’t look all that different from a human writer’s first draft, but, again, I think this is a superficial resemblance. Your first draft isn’t an unoriginal idea expressed clearly; it’s an original idea expressed poorly, and it is accompanied by your amorphous dissatisfaction, your awareness of the distance between what it says and what you want it to say. That’s what directs you during rewriting, and that’s one of the things lacking when you start with text generated by an A.I."

That’s the human difference—not the final output, but the spark of creation. The fact that you start bad and get good later, the work of figuring out where you’re going while still on the way there. I hope we all keep writing once it stops being an insult to sound like ChatGPT. Robots have been better than humans at chess, Jeopardy!, and lifting heavy objects for a long time now, but that doesn’t supplant our interest in playing ourselves.

When I started running, I found myself surprised at its nonlinearity. The first mile is always the worst. You can hit an invisible wall on mile five then feel an energy surge at mile seven; as soon as I swear I’m all gone and hit stop on Strava, I feel sure I could sprint the whole way back. It’s a strange law of runner’s physics that if you keep going, things will get better. People call this running through it—it meaning the pain, dehydration, mental blocks, whatever—and I wish my other selves could hear the same. Usually, I see too much in black and white. If you don’t anticipate a bounce-back, you’re bound to quit too soon. I say one wrong thing and think the friendship is over; I cook one messy meal and I’ll never host again. The essay I think is dogshit probably will come together, if I put the hours in; sometimes you have to type four hundred hackneyed sentences to write one that reads like the word of God.