I love apple juice. I bought two jugs yesterday because one never lasts long enough (a day over a week). I wonder if they’re finally cold enough. I honestly wish I didn’t have an urge to chug apple juice, especially since it comes at peculiar times like 2AM when there is no noise and my teeth implore me not to do it, but my mom didn’t let me drink juice as a kid, so as a maturing and quite responsible adult I see it within my duties to consume it in the most irrational, childish fashion.

I’m writing this in as personal a voice as I can muster but the word counter I’m using is telling me that I’m writing in a ninth to tenth grade voice which is honestly aggravating and now the primary reader I’m keeping in mind. Fuck you WordCounter, I don’t pay gold bars to have my degree insulted like this. Ha. Now it’s eleventh to twelfth grade. We’re getting somewhere.

Dad wasn’t a good headmaster, teacher or gym coach. Anyone who tells you otherwise is probably also telling you that those aren’t their dishes in the sink. What dad was was an entomologist, a publisher and a painter. He didn’t show us that Jefferson City is the capital of Missouri. He showed us how to catalogue and make prints of the insects that we found in our front yard. We ruined so many paper plates and corners of couches learning how to water paint and he let me use his closet as a space to build pinball machines of cardboard. We didn’t have apple juice in our house but that was okay. Who needs apple juice when you have parents that will show you stars. Dad entertained our wildest ideas and tiniest questions. He kept curiosity alive.

I’m now seventeen years old, halfway to eighteen and on my last year of high school. I’ve spent three years building apps, leading creative direction and making beautiful products. I’m so proud of the work I’ve done with the people I’ve met and every time I look back at a piece of work, I can’t help but wonder if it happened because I didn’t have apple juice as a kid. I can’t help but wonder where our curiosity comes from and how we can protect it. Is our creativity inherent? How do we foster it, teach it, protect it. This is what I’ll be exploring in this class and I’m excited.

Unless I think of something more interesting. WordCounter go kick rocks. My writing is way better than a middle schooler.
