Nobody takes care of southern Ontario.

On the drive from my parent’s house to the hospital — a two-hour stretch of deep suburban highway we’ve driven hundreds of times in my life, for hundreds of reasons — this is the only thing I can think about, again and again. Nobody takes care of anything here.

In Mark Fisher’s The Weird and the Eerie, he theorizes that the feeling of eerie is formed from absence; eerieness is conjured “either when there is something present where there should be nothing, or there is nothing present where there should be something.” Ontario, too, is defined by absence: acres of empty farmland, dead or dying; an occasional horse with no stable, brushing off flies; abandoned barns, their rotted roofs slumping into them like bedsheets, black with mildew and so eaten-through that you can see pockets of sky peeking through from the other side of the wooden slats. 

Ontario in the winter is a province in greyscale. It’s the kind of grey that takes something from you; you are less of yourself for being surrounded by it. There are stretches of the road that make you colourblind — you’re left desperate for stimulation, reaching for the abstract idea of colour in the forgotten past or distant future (maybe one of these barns used to be red, you think, before the rot). And then, just when you’re sure you’ll never see anything but grey ever again in your life, you see a glimpse of a blue car or a bright yellow billboard that says JESUS SAVES. It never makes you feel better; mostly it just serves to remind you that there is theoretical colour in the world, far away, kept from you. Someone in this place must have stolen some colour from somewhere it naturally grows and transplanted it here, in its ugliest possible form, for no reason other than to torture us. Then the blue car drives out of your field of view and you’re colourblind again. 

One year, we were driving down this stretch of road and saw one of the abandoned barns engulfed in flames. The fire was two stories high, hypnotic in its efficiency, made fiercer and brighter and hotter by the flat monotony of the landscape around it. It was the most viscerally destructive thing I had ever seen in real life, and this is the part that really put a pit in my stomach: all this sound and fury, and it wasn’t destroying anything that anyone had cared about for a long, long time.