I am in my hysterical 20th-century woman era, I would think, unlikeably. I am sleeping at erratic hours, I am sobbing, I am writing and never publishing, I am seeing shapes in my wallpaper. I am never washing my face, I am eating lavishly, I am ruining my reputation. I am making sure to eat a square of dark chocolate during my depressive episodes so they’ll sound sexy in my memoirs. Even when I am ostensibly at my lowest, I am still filtering my experiences through the eyes of a consumer; the desire to editorialize our own experiences (to romanticize the unseen, to live for our biographies) has become an autonomic facet of womanhood as unavoidable as breathing.

Like the great mad women before me, I am spiraling into manic-depressive chaos in a way that I will inevitably romanticize regardless of its material consequences, and self-mythologizing until I can make that feel like a good thing. I’m not unwell or self-destructive or entirely unbearable—I’m in my Fleabag era! We rationalize our own suffering through the romanticization of those who have suffered before us and, in turn, we provide a blueprint for the hot-girl suffering of those after. We commodify that rationalization through the era-appropriate medium (for Dorothy Parker, this was print media, and for me it’s TikTok. Sometimes I am tempted to be bitter about this but then I remember that I am no Dorothy Parker). This is a cycle, apparently, that never ends.

But, oh, it feels so good to be understood, even when it’s only as a caricature. This feeling is real because I have something to compare it to. I am in my Fleabag era. I am in my Yellow Wallpaper era. I am in my Phoebe Bridgers era. I am Fiona Apple, I am eternal sunshine of the spotless mind, do you get it now, do you get it now. Try as I might, I can only seem to understand myself through the fictions of the more actualized—and, just as I reassure myself that I am drawn to this media because of some predetermined, inherent sense of self, I wonder if it is creating me, too. Who would I be if I stopped consuming things? What would there be left to feel? 

We consume so much, now, that perhaps we don’t know what it means to exist as something unsellable. I had to give up journaling because I couldn’t stop writing for the people who would read it after I was dead. 